Add a bunch of words (#10)
unicorn-wg/oblivious-http: draft-thomson-http-oblivious.md

# Introduction

The act of making a request using HTTP reveals information about the client
identity to a server. Though the content of requests might reveal information,
that is information under the control of the client. In comparison, the source
address on the connection reveals information that a client has only limited
control over.

Even where an IP address is not directly attributed to an individual, the use
of an address over time can be used to correlate requests. Servers are able to
use this information to assemble profiles of client behavior, from which they
can make inferences about the people involved. The use of persistent
connections to make multiple requests improves performance, but provides
servers with additional certainty about the identity of clients in a similar
fashion.

Use of an HTTP proxy can provide a degree of protection against servers
correlating requests. Systems like virtual private networks or the Tor network
{{Dingledine2004}}, provide other options for clients.

Though the overhead imposed by these methods varies, the cost for each request

> is significant. In order to prevent linking requests to the same client, each
> request requires a completely new TLS connection to the server. At a minimum,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is significant. Preventing request linkability requires that each request use a completely new 
TLS connection to the server. At a minimum,
```

operated by the same entity as the oblivious request resource. However,
colocation of the oblivious request resource and oblivious target resource
simplifies the interactions between those resources without affecting client
privacy.

## Client

Clients have the fewest direct responsibilities, though clients do need to
ensure that they do not undermine the process.

Clients cannot carry connection-level state between requests as they only
establish direct connections to the proxy responsible for the oblivious proxy
resource. However, clients need to ensure that they construct requests without
any information gained from previous requests. Otherwise, the server might be
able to use that information to link requests. Cookies {{?COOKIES=RFC6265}} are
the most obvious feature that MUST NOT be used by clients. However, clients
need to include all information learned from requests, which could include the
identity of resources.

Clients also need to ensure that they correctly generate a new HPKE context for
every request, using a good source of entropy ({{?RANDOM=RFC4086}}). Key reuse
not only risks linkability, but it could expose request and response contents

> to the proxy. Note that an HPKE implementation is stateful and so prevents AEAD
> nonce reuse.

Reviewer: Since contexts aren't re-used, I don't think we need to say this.

```suggestion
to the proxy. 
```

Author: I was thinking that this was something we could say because it explains that reuse of a context doesn't necessarily lead to this problem.

Clients constructing the request that is to be encapsulated need to avoid
including identifying information. Similarly, the request that is sent to the
oblivious request resource, though this request can contain only minimal
information as it only needs to include a method and the oblivious request
resource URL.

## Proxy Responsibilities

The proxy that serves the oblivious proxy resource has a very simple function
to perform. It forwards messages received at this resource to the oblivious

> request resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
request resource, and forwards responses from the oblivious request resource to
back to clients. The proxy MUST forward response status codes without modification.
```

attack by the server.

If a server does accept a large volume of requests from a proxy, it needs to
trust that the proxy does not allow abusive levels of request volumes from
clients. That is, if a server allows requests from the proxy to be exempt from
rate limits, the server might want to ensure that the proxy applies similar
rate limiting when receiving requests from clients.

Servers that enter into an agreement with a proxy that enables a higher request
rate might choose to authenticate the proxy to enable the higher rate.

### Linkability Through Traffic Analysis {#ta}

As the time at which encapsulated request or response messages are sent can
reveal information to a network observer. Though messages exchanged between the
oblivious proxy resource and the oblivious request resource might be sent in a
single connection, traffic analysis could be used to match messages that are
forwarded by the proxy.

A proxy could, as part of its function, add delays in order to increase the
anonymity set into which each message is attributed. This could latency to the
overall time clients take to receive a response, which might not what some
clients want.

> A proxy can use padding to reduce the effectiveness of traffic analysis.

Reviewer: Noting transport-layer since it can't modify the binary messages.

```suggestion
A proxy can use transport-layer padding to reduce the effectiveness of traffic analysis.
```

A proxy that forwards large volumes of exchanges can provide better privacy by
providing larger sets of messages that need to be matched.

> What steps a proxy takes to mitigate the risk of traffic analysis is something
> a client needs to consider when selecting a proxy.

Reviewer: I'm not sure we should include this. Clients can't really verify that proxies apply traffic analysis mitigations, so I'm not sure clients would meaningfully take this into account when choosing a proxy.

```suggestion
```

## Server Responsibilities

A server that operates both oblivious request and oblivious target resources is
responsible for removing request encapsulation, generating a response the
encapsulated request, and encapsulating the response.

> A server needs to ensure that the encapsulated responses it sends are padded to
> protect against traffic analysis; see {{ta}}.

Reviewer: Is this enough? What if the response is leaked not via size but via response time? (Victim makes a request whose response is cached, and then attacker sends the same request and tries to observe cache hit/miss.) 

(I really don't love the timing delay stuff, but it seems better to mention the possible risk than not.)

```suggestion
Servers should account for traffic analysis based on response size or generation time.
Techniques such as padding or timing delays can help protect against such attacks;
see {{ta}}.
```
